docs: technical guidelines for contributing (#8562)
elastic/eui: wiki/contributing-to-eui/documenting/writing-documentation.md

- note
- tip
- info
- accessibility
- warning
- danger

### Code blocks

A code block or code snippet can be created by wrapping text in backticks, e.g. \`code\`.

For a simple one-liner, single backticks are enough. To create a multiline snippet or code block, use three backticks. For syntax highlighting, the language name can be added right after the first three backticks.

    ```html  
    <span>Hello World</span>  
    ```

Code blocks can be used to generate live demos, where a React component that is exported in the snippet, will be rendered on the page. To do that, append the word "interactive" after the language name, usually `tsx`.

    ```tsx interactive  
    export default () => (
      <div>Hello World</div>
    )
    ```

More advanced usage with the [`Demo` component](#live-demos) can be found right below.

### Live demos

When plain code blocks are not enough, the `Demo` component can be used. It's available without being imported so it can be used straightaway.

> [!NOTE]
> They're called "live" demos because the source code can be edited right there on the page and the preview will update

The benefits of over plain code blocks are mainly:

> - the scope of the demo can be expanded with imports from the document, and already exposes all React and EUI exports

Author: I got that from [the Demo source code](https://github.com/elastic/eui/blob/d38b6279bc5bf31ffd3466089b689ecc2eb47cdf/packages/docusaurus-theme/src/components/demo/demo.tsx#L50) 😛, everything that the `react` and `@elastic/eui` packages export is included in the scope

I'm guessing we include the imports in the demos so they're more easily copy-pastable (and because of codesandbox, to make it work there), no?

- it's possible to add a wrapper component for the preview and adjust the padding

#### `Demo` props

- `children` - A `tsx` code block

> - `scope` - An object the default scope of the rendered demo and pass additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `scope` - An object with additional scope elements, e.g. SVG imports
```
maybe?

Author: I clearly messed up, will try and improve a bit to it clearer…

> - `isSourceOpen` (_false_) - Whether the source code editor is open by default

Reviewer: Maybe we could write "; `false` by default" at the end of the sentence:
```suggestion
- `isSourceOpen` - Whether the source code editor is open by default; `false` by default
```
we got a repetition there but I think it's cleaner and doesn't clash with "_(optional)_".

```tsx
import { css } from '@emotion/react';

import {
  EuiBasicTable,
  EuiBasicTableColumn,
  // ...
} from '@elastic/eui';

export const NiceTable = () => {
  const items = [
    // ...
  ];
  const columns = [
    // ...
  ];

  return <EuiBasicTable items={items} columns={columns} tableLayout="auto" />;
}
```

And then in `index.mdx`:

    ## A heading for the table

    ```mdx-code-block
    import { NiceTable } from './nice_table';
    ```

    <NiceTable />

### Dos and Don'ts

For dos and don'ts sections there's a `Guideline` component with the appropriate styles built-in. To display one next to the other, a [EuiFlexGroup](#TODO) can be used:

```tsx
<EuiFlexGroup gutterSize="m">
  <Guideline type="do" text="Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.">
    <div>Yep content</div>
  </Guideline>
  <Guideline type="dont" text="Quisque faucibus ex sapien vitae pellentesque sem placerat.">
    <div>Nope content</div>
  </Guideline>
</EuiFlexGroup>
```

#### `Guideline` props

- `children` - The content inside, can be other components
- `type` - "do", "dont" or "default" 
- `text` - The actual guideline text

> - `panelPadding`? - To adjust the padding of the panel

Author: you're right 👍

- `panelStyle`? - To further customize the panel styles

### Props table

> The Props table should always go last in a document. There is a `PropTable` component available that will take the props information from the `@elastic/eui-docgen` package in the `definition` prop.

Reviewer: I think the prop table component is available through the [global scope](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/react/#mdx-component-scope), right? Maybe we can capture that here, to explain you don't have to import it.

# Writing documentation

- [Files and folders](#files-and-folders)
- [Partials](#partials)
- [Collapsible sidebar items](#collapsible-sidebar-items)
- [Front matter](#front-matter)
- [Documeting components](#documenting-components)
- [Custom components available](#custom-components-available)
- [Writing content](#writing-content)
  - [Headings](#headings)
  - [Links](#links)
  - [Admonitions](#admonitions)
  - [Code blocks](#code-blocks)
  - [Live demos](#live-demos)
  - [Full-screen example](#full-screen-example)
  - [Tables](#tables)
  - [Dos and Don'ts](#dos-and-donts)
  - [Figma embed](#figma-embed)
  - [Props table](#props-table)

> Code for the Elastic UI [documentation site](https://elastic.github.io/eui/#/) can be found in the `packages/website` directory. The site is built with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code for the Elastic UI [documentation site](https://eui.elastic.co) can be found in the `packages/website` directory. The site is built with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/).
```

### Custom components available

There are a few React components that can be used in `.mdx` files without being imported. They are part of the [MDX scope](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/react/#mdx-component-scope). Some of them, documented below, are:

- [`Demo`](#demo-props)
- [`FigmaEmbed`](#figma-embed)
- [`Guideline`](#guideline-props)
- [`PropTable`](#props-table)

## Front matter

The front matter is a section at the top of a Markdown file that contains metadata about the document. It's enclosed in triple dashes (`---`) and written in [YAML format](https://yaml.org/).

A few important aspects of the document can be configured here:

- `id` (unique to the document)
- `slug` (to customize the URL)
- `sidebar_label`
- `sidebar_position`
- `title` (if different from the h1)
- `description`

For a [full list of fields](https://docusaurus.io/docs/api/plugins/@docusaurus/plugin-content-docs#markdown-front-matter), check the Docusaurus docs.

## Collapsible sidebar items

> To make a folder become a collapsible item in the sidebar, add a `_category_.yml` file to it that includes a boolean `collapsed` field. Usually set to `false`.

Reviewer: > Usually set to `false`.

`collapsed` is set to `false` by default. Is that what we mean? This sentence would imply explicit `collapsed: false;`, right?

Author: I wanted to imply it's a kind of convention, like we recommend it being `false`… but I'm realizing I wanted to suggest the opposite, we want it to be collapsed (`true`) haha; and it's already `true` by default, I'll update this!

Author: updated in https://github.com/elastic/eui/pull/8562/commits/4c9cd1bc6e312a9c15647eba15644a5fa514c487

> Other fields that can be useful are `label` and `position`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other useful fields are `label` and `position`.
```
For brevity.

> [!WARNING]
> Nesting items in the sidebar should be avoided when possible, deeply nested items can make the menu harder to use

## Documenting components

All component pages should follow the following architecture:

- Intro
- Component: a bare-bones example of the component in its default form
- Usage (_optional_): examples of different states and use-cases
- Guidelines (_optional_): e.g. dos and don'ts
- Props

## Partials

A document can be split into different files when content is too long, for easier editing.

Markdown files prefixed with an underscore will be ignored when generating the sidebar navigation. These hidden files can be imported and rendered in the main document.

For example, the document for the Modal page is `containers/modal/index.mdx`:

    containers/
      modal/
        _guidelines.mdx
        _usage.mdx
        index.mdx

Usage and Guidelines sections have their own file that can be imported:

    import Usage from './_usage.mdx';
    
    ## Usage
    
    <Usage />
    
    ## Guidelines
    
    import Guidelines from './_guidelines.mdx';
    
    <Guidelines />

> Read more about [importing markdown](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/react#importing-markdown) in the Docusaurus docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about [importing Markdown files](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/react#importing-markdown) in the Docusaurus docs.
```

### Headings

Headings in Markdown are created with a hash symbol in a new line. The number of hashes will determine the heading level, `#` for 1, `##` for 2, etc.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Do not use heading levels for styling, use them to properly structure the document hierarchically

### Links

Markdown is the recommended syntax for creating links. Docusaurus will take care of rendering it correctly.

```md
[This is a link](https://example.com)
```

To link between documents, use **relative file paths, including the file extension**, e.g. `[EuiPanel](../containers/panel/index.mdx)`

Read more about [Markdown links](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/links) in the Docusaurus docs.

### Admonitions

The syntax for creating admonitions is wrapping a paragraph in three colons, e.g. `:::`. The type of admonition and title can be defined after the first three colons. This will render `EuiCallOut`.

```mdx
:::info This is the title

Here's some content

:::
```

There are 5 types of admonitions supported, with icon and color respectively.

> - note
> - tip
> - info
> - accessibility
> - warning
> - danger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `note`
- `tip`
- `info`
- `accessibility`
- `warning`
- `danger`
```

### Code blocks

A code block or code snippet can be created by wrapping text in backticks, e.g. \`code\`.

For a simple one-liner, single backticks are enough. To create a multiline snippet or code block, use three backticks. For syntax highlighting, the language name can be added right after the first three backticks.

    ```html  
    <span>Hello World</span>  
    ```

Code blocks can be used to generate live demos, where a React component that is exported in the snippet will be rendered on the page. To do that, append the word "interactive" after the language name, usually `tsx`.

    ```tsx interactive  
    export default () => (
      <div>Hello World</div>
    )
    ```

> More advanced usage with the [`Demo` component](#live-demos) can be found right below.

Reviewer: Sorry for the suggestion, this actually might be redundant if the section is right below. Wdyt?

Author: I think it's OK, I can imagine this still being useful even though it's a bit silly to link to literally the next sibling 😀

- `previewWrapper` - A wrapper component for the preview

Check the [source code here](https://github.com/elastic/eui/tree/main/packages/docusaurus-theme/src/components/demo).

#### Usage example

> [!TIP]
> Remember to wrap imports in ```mdx-code-block`

    ```mdx-code-block
    import previewWrapper from './preview_wrapper.tsx';
    ```

    <Demo previewWrapper={previewWrapper}>
    ```tsx
    import React, { useState } from 'react';
    import { EuiButton } from '@elastic/eui';

    export default () => {
      const [counter, setCounter] = useState<number>(0);
      const updateCounter = () => setCounter(x => x + 1);

      return (
        <EuiButton onClick={updateCounter}>
          Clicked {counter} times
        </EuiButton>
      )
    }
    ```
    </Demo>

### Full-screen example

The convention for creating full-screen examples, where the entire browser screen is needed to demo a certain component combination or pattern, is to create a Storybook story and link to it from the docs.

There's a `StorybookLink` component that makes this easy and consistent, by handling the URL appropriately depending on the environment.

> It's expected for the link to be preceeded by a heading a some text briefly describing the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's expected for the link to be preceeded by a heading and a short description.
```

```tsx
import { css } from '@emotion/react';

import {
  EuiBasicTable,
  EuiBasicTableColumn,
  // ...
} from '@elastic/eui';

export const NiceTable = () => {
  const items = [
    // ...
  ];
  const columns = [
    // ...
  ];

  return <EuiBasicTable items={items} columns={columns} tableLayout="auto" />;
}
```

And then in `index.mdx` the table can be rendered:

    ## A heading for the table

    ```mdx-code-block
    import { NiceTable } from './nice_table';
    ```

    <NiceTable />

### Dos and Don'ts

For dos and don'ts sections there's a `Guideline` component with the appropriate styles built-in. To display one next to the other, a [EuiFlexGroup](https://eui.elastic.co/docs/components/layout/flex/flex-group) can be used:

```tsx
<EuiFlexGroup gutterSize="m">
  <Guideline type="do" text="Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.">
    <div>Yep content</div>
  </Guideline>
  <Guideline type="dont" text="Quisque faucibus ex sapien vitae pellentesque sem placerat.">
    <div>Nope content</div>
  </Guideline>
</EuiFlexGroup>
```

#### `Guideline` props

- `children` - The content inside, can be other components

> - `type` - "do", "dont" or "default" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` - `do`, `dont` or `default` 
```
